Question	Answer	Reference
What was the name of Judah's wife, the mother of Perez and Zerah?	Tamar	Matthew 1:3
In Luke's genealogy, who was the son of Cainan and the grandson of Shem?	Arphaxad	Luke 3:36
What did the angel tell Zechariah that many would do at the birth of his son?	Rejoice	Luke 1:14
What did the people who heard of John's birth lay up in their hearts, saying what?	"What then will this child be?"	Luke 1:66
What was Mary pondering in her heart after the shepherds' visit?	All the things she had heard and seen.	Luke 2:19
How many days did Jesus' parents travel before they realized he was not with them?	A day's journey	Luke 2:44
According to Mark's quotation of Isaiah, what will the messenger do?	"prepare your way"	Mark 1:2
What did John the Baptist's winnowing fork do?	Clear his threshing floor and gather the wheat into the barn.	Matthew 3:12
What was the devil's final temptation of Jesus in Luke's account?	To throw himself down from the pinnacle of the temple.	Luke 4:9
What did John the Baptist call Jesus, acknowledging his divinity?	The Son of God	John 1:34
What did Jesus say to Nathanael that was greater than seeing him under the fig tree?	"you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man."	John 1:51
What was the reason John's disciples and a Jew had a discussion?	Over purification	John 3:25
What was the saying that held true about sowing and reaping?	"One sows and another reaps."	John 4:37
What did the official at Capernaum say to Jesus?	"Sir, come down before my child dies."	John 4:49
How did the people of Nazareth react to Jesus' words about the widow of Zarephath and Naaman the Syrian?	They were filled with wrath.	Luke 4:28
What did Jesus say to the paralytic when he healed him?	"I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home."	Mark 2:11
What was the scribes' and Pharisees' reaction to the healing of the paralytic?	They began to question, saying, "Who is this who speaks blasphemies?"	Luke 5:21
What did Jesus say about putting new wine into old wineskins?	The skins will burst, the wine will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.	Matthew 9:17
What did Jesus say about those who have drunk old wine?	They do not desire new, for they say, "The old is good."	Luke 5:39
What did the Jews do after Jesus told them "My Father is working until now, and I am working"?	They were seeking all the more to kill him.	John 5:17-18
What kind of resurrection did Jesus say those who have done good will experience?	The resurrection of life	John 5:29
What did Jesus tell his disciples the Son of Man is lord of?	The Sabbath	Matthew 12:8
Which of the twelve apostles was known as "the Zealot"?	Simon	Luke 6:15
What did Jesus say about those who are poor, in the Sermon on the Plain?	"yours is the kingdom of God"	Luke 6:20
What did Jesus say about loving those who love you?	"what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them."	Luke 6:32
When praying, what did Jesus say to avoid doing like the Gentiles?	Heaping up empty phrases.	Matthew 6:7
Who did the centurion consider himself unworthy of having come under his roof?	Jesus	Matthew 8:8
What did Jesus say about the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven compared to John the Baptist?	He is greater than John.	Matthew 11:11
Who did Jesus say wisdom is justified by?	Her deeds / all her children	Matthew 11:19, Luke 7:35
What did the unclean spirit in the synagogue know about Jesus?	"I know who you are—the Holy One of God."	Mark 1:24
What did the Gerasene demoniac do when he saw Jesus from afar?	He ran and fell down before him.	Mark 5:6
What was the earnest request of the demons called Legion?	Not to send them out of the country.	Mark 5:10
How many blind men did Jesus heal as he passed on from Jairus's house?	Two	Matthew 9:27
Who was the brother of James and Joses, and Simon?	Judas	Mark 6:3
What did Jesus instruct his disciples not to take for their journey?	No bag, no money, no extra tunic.	Matthew 10:9-10
What did Jesus say about a cup of cold water given to one of his "little ones"?	He who gives it "will by no means lose his reward."	Matthew 10:42
What did Herod's daughter ask for on a platter?	The head of John the Baptist	Matthew 14:8
What did the disciples think Jesus was when they saw him walking on the sea?	A ghost	Matthew 14:26
What did the men of Gennesaret do when they recognized Jesus?	They sent around to all that region and brought to him all who were sick.	Matthew 14:35
What did Jesus say defiles a person?	What comes out of the mouth, which proceeds from the heart.	Matthew 15:11, 18
What was the physical condition of the man brought to Jesus in the region of the Decapolis?	He was deaf and had a speech impediment.	Mark 7:32
How did the Pharisees and Sadducees try to test Jesus?	By asking him to show them a sign from heaven.	Matthew 16:1
What did Peter confess Jesus to be at Caesarea Philippi?	"You are the Christ, the Son of the living God."	Matthew 16:16
What did Jesus say about his church and the gates of hell?	"the gates of hell shall not prevail against it."	Matthew 16:18
How many days after Peter's confession was the Transfiguration?	Six days	Matthew 17:1
What did the father of the demon-possessed boy say about the spirit's effect on his son?	"whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid."	Mark 9:18
What did Jesus use to illustrate the greatness of one in the kingdom of heaven?	A child	Matthew 18:2-4
How much did the unforgiving servant's fellow servant owe him?	A hundred denarii	Matthew 18:28
Why did Jesus not go about in Judea after the conflict over ceremonial uncleanness?	Because the Jews were seeking to kill him.	John 7:1
Why did Jesus' brothers say he should go to Judea for the Feast of Booths?	So that his disciples could see the works he was doing.	John 7:3
What was the crowd's opinion on whether the Christ would come from Galilee?	They were divided, with some saying no, as the Scripture says he comes from Bethlehem.	John 7:41-43
What did the Pharisees accuse the crowd that believed in Jesus of not knowing?	The law	John 7:49
What did Jesus write on the ground?	The text does not say.	John 8:6
What did Jesus say about his judgment?	"my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me."	John 8:16
What did Jesus say the Jews would do if they were Abraham's children?	The works Abraham did.	John 8:39
What did the Jews say when Jesus claimed not to have a demon?	"Now we know that you have a demon! Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you say, ‘If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death.’"	John 8:52
What was Jesus's response when the disciples asked who sinned, the blind man or his parents?	"It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him."	John 9:3
What did the healed blind man say when asked what Jesus did to him?	"He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see."	John 9:15
What did the healed blind man's neighbors say he kept saying?	"I am the man."	John 9:9
What did Jesus say about a thief and a robber in the sheepfold?	He is one who does not enter by the door but climbs in by another way.	John 10:1
What did Jesus say the good shepherd does for the sheep?	Lays down his life for the sheep.	John 10:11
What was the Jews' reaction to the allegory of the good shepherd?	There was again a division among them.	John 10:19
How many others did the Lord appoint and send out?	Seventy-two	Luke 10:1
What did Jesus say would happen to the "son of peace" in a house?	Your peace will rest upon him.	Luke 10:6
What did Jesus say to do in a town that receives his disciples?	"Heal the sick in it and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.’"	Luke 10:9
What did Jesus say about Sodom on the day of judgment?	It will be more bearable for Sodom than for a town that rejects his disciples.	Luke 10:12
What did the lawyer do to test Jesus?	He stood up and asked him, "Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"	Luke 10:25
Who showed mercy on the man who fell among the robbers?	The Samaritan	Luke 10:37
What did Jesus say about one who asks, seeks, and knocks?	"everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened."	Luke 11:10
What did some say about Jesus casting out demons?	"He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of demons."	Luke 11:15
What did Jesus say he casts out demons by?	The finger of God	Luke 11:20
When the unclean spirit returns, how many other spirits does it bring with it?	Seven other spirits more evil than itself	Luke 11:26
What did Jesus say about the men of Nineveh?	They will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah.	Luke 11:32
What did the Pharisee neglect while tithing mint and rue and every herb?	Justice and the love of God	Luke 11:42
What did Jesus tell his disciples to beware of first?	"the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy"	Luke 12:1
What did Jesus say about those who fear those who can kill the body?	"do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do."	Luke 12:4
What did the rich man in the parable say to his soul?	"Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, be merry."	Luke 12:19
What did Jesus say about the ravens?	"they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them."	Luke 12:24
What did Peter ask about the parable of the watchful servants?	"Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all?"	Luke 12:41
What did Jesus say he came to cast on the earth?	Fire	Luke 12:49
What did the ruler of the synagogue become when Jesus healed on the Sabbath?	Indignant	Luke 13:14
When Jesus said he was the Son of God, what did the Jews accuse him of?	Blasphemy	John 10:33, 36
After the attempt to stone him, where did Jesus go?	Away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first.	John 10:40
What did the people say about John the Baptist when Jesus was in Perea?	"John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true."	John 10:41
Who did Jesus say would be last and first?	"some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last."	Luke 13:30
What did Jesus call Herod?	"that fox"	Luke 13:32
What did Jesus say about his desire to gather Jerusalem's children?	"How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing!"	Luke 13:34
What did Jesus say to the guests who chose places of honor at a feast?	"When you are invited... do not sit down in a place of honor"	Luke 14:8
What did the man who bought five yoke of oxen need to do?	Go and examine them.	Luke 14:19
What did Jesus say about those who do not bear their own cross?	They cannot be his disciple.	Luke 14:27
What did Jesus say would happen to salt that has lost its taste?	It is of no use either for the soil or for the manure pile; it is thrown away.	Luke 14:35
What did the older brother hear as he approached the house?	Music and dancing	Luke 15:25
What was the older brother's reaction to the celebration for his brother?	He was angry and refused to go in.	Luke 15:28
What did Jesus say about a servant serving two masters?	"he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other."	Luke 16:13
What did the rich man wear?	Purple and fine linen	Luke 16:19
Who carried the poor man Lazarus to Abraham's side?	The angels	Luke 16:22
What did the apostles ask the Lord to do for them?	"Increase our faith!"	Luke 17:5
What did Jesus say a servant should do after plowing or keeping sheep?	Prepare supper for his master.	Luke 17:8
Who did Thomas, called the Twin, say they should go and do with Jesus?	"Let us also go, that we may die with him."	John 11:16
Who came to Martha and Mary to console them?	Many of the Jews	John 11:19
How did Jesus feel when he saw Mary and the Jews weeping?	He was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled.	John 11:33
What was Caiaphas's title the year he prophesied?	High priest	John 11:49
What did Caiaphas say was better for the people?	"that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish."	John 11:50
Where did Jesus go with his disciples after the decision of the Sanhedrin?	To the region near the wilderness, to a town called Ephraim.	John 11:54
What did Jesus say about two in one bed on the night of his coming?	"One will be taken and the other left."	Luke 17:34
What did the disciples ask Jesus regarding the vultures?	"Where, Lord?"	Luke 17:37
What did Jesus say about the man who exalts himself?	He will be humbled.	Luke 18:14
Why did Moses allow divorce, according to Jesus?	"Because of your hardness of heart"	Matthew 19:8
What did Jesus say about those who are eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven?	"Let the one who is able to receive this receive it."	Matthew 19:12
What did Jesus say Peter and the other disciples would receive for leaving everything?	A hundredfold, and they will inherit eternal life.	Matthew 19:29
How did the laborers who were hired first feel when they received their wages?	They grumbled at the master of the house.	Matthew 20:11
What was the companion of blind Bartimaeus healed of?	Blindness	Matthew 20:34
What was Zacchaeus's profession?	He was a chief tax collector.	Luke 19:2
What did the nobleman give to each of his ten servants?	Ten minas in total, likely one mina each.	Luke 19:13
What did the servant who earned ten minas receive as a reward?	Authority over ten cities.	Luke 19:17
What did the people do with palm tree branches?	They took them and went out to meet Jesus.	John 12:13
What did the Pharisees say to Jesus during the triumphal entry?	"Teacher, rebuke your disciples."	Luke 19:39
What did Jesus say a grain of wheat must do to bear much fruit?	It must fall into the earth and die.	John 12:24
What did Jesus say about those who hate their life in this world?	They will keep it for eternal life.	John 12:25
What was Isaiah's prophecy about the people's belief?	"Lord, who has believed what he heard from us...?"	John 12:38
Why did some authorities who believed in Jesus not confess it?	For fear of the Pharisees, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue.	John 12:42
What did the son who initially refused to work in the vineyard do?	He afterward changed his mind and went.	Matthew 21:29
What did the king do to the murderers in the parable of the wedding feast?	He sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.	Matthew 22:7
What question did a lawyer ask to test Jesus?	"Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?"	Matthew 22:36
What are the two greatest commandments?	To love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and to love your neighbor as yourself.	Matthew 22:37-39
What did Jesus say the scribes and Pharisees do with their phylacteries?	They make them broad.	Matthew 23:5
What did Jesus say would not be left on the temple buildings?	One stone upon another.	Matthew 24:2
What did Jesus say about false christs and false prophets?	They will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.	Matthew 24:24
In the parable of the doorkeeper, when does the master of the house leave?	When he goes on a journey.	Mark 13:34
When does the King separate the sheep from the goats?	When the Son of Man comes in his glory and sits on his glorious throne.	Matthew 25:31-32
How much did Judas Iscariot agree to betray Jesus for?	Thirty pieces of silver	Matthew 26:15
What did Jesus say his blood of the covenant is poured out for?	"for many for the forgiveness of sins"	Matthew 26:28
What did Jesus say about asking in his name?	"Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son."	John 14:13
What did Jesus say the world cannot receive?	The Spirit of truth	John 14:17
What did Jesus say about his own words?	"the word that you hear is not mine but the Father’s who sent me."	John 14:24
What did Jesus say is the word that is written in their Law?	"They hated me without a cause."	John 15:25
What will happen when the hour comes for Jesus' disciples?	They will be put out of the synagogues, and some will be killed.	John 16:2
What did Jesus say his disciples would be scattered to?	"each to his own home"	John 16:32
For whose sake did Jesus say he consecrated himself?	For the sake of his disciples.	John 17:19
How many times did Jesus go away to pray in Gethsemane?	Three times	Matthew 26:44
What did Judas do immediately after kissing Jesus?	The text says "Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him."	Matthew 26:50
What did the young man who followed Jesus do when seized?	He left the linen cloth and ran away naked.	Mark 14:52
What was Jesus's answer to Caiaphas's question, "Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?"	"I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven."	Mark 14:62
What did the bystanders say betrayed Peter?	His accent	Matthew 26:73
What did Judas do with the thirty pieces of silver?	He threw them down into the temple.	Matthew 27:5
What was the accusation the Jews brought against Jesus before Pilate?	"We found this man misleading our nation and forbidding us to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ, a king."	Luke 23:2
What did Pilate say he would do to Jesus since he found no guilt in him?	"I will therefore punish and release him."	Luke 23:16, 22
Who did the chief priests stir up the crowd to release instead of Jesus?	Barabbas	Mark 15:11
What was the name of the man from Cyrene who was compelled to carry the cross?	Simon	Matthew 27:32
What did Jesus drink on the cross?	He tasted wine mixed with gall but would not drink it; he received sour wine from a sponge.	Matthew 27:34, 48
What happened to the curtain of the temple at Jesus's death?	It was torn in two, from top to bottom.	Matthew 27:51
What did Joseph of Arimathea do with the great stone?	He rolled it to the entrance of the tomb.	Matthew 27:60
What did Mary Magdalene and the other Mary do on the day after the Preparation?	The text states they were sitting opposite the tomb on the day of burial, but does not specify their actions on the next day. Matthew 27:61.
Who was with Mary Magdalene when she bought spices?	Mary the mother of James, and Salome	Mark 16:1
What was the condition of the stone at the tomb when the women arrived?	It had been rolled back—it was very large.	Mark 16:4
What did the angel at the tomb tell the women to do?	"go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead"	Matthew 28:7
What was the first thing Peter and John did when they heard Mary's report?	They went out, and they were going toward the tomb.	John 20:3
What did Jesus say to his brothers through the women he met?	"Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me."	Matthew 28:10
What was the name of one of the disciples on the road to Emmaus?	Cleopas	Luke 24:18
How did the two disciples recognize Jesus?	In the breaking of the bread.	Luke 24:35
How many fish did the disciples catch when Jesus told them to cast the net on the right side?	A great quantity, so they were not able to haul it in.	John 21:6
What was the rumor that spread among the brothers about the disciple whom Jesus loved?	That this disciple was not to die.	John 21:23
What was Jesus doing when he blessed his disciples and was carried into heaven?	He was leading them out as far as Bethany.	Luke 24:50-51
In John's prologue, what two things are not the will of man or flesh?	The birth of the children of God.	John 1:13
According to Matthew, who was the father of Salmon?	Nahshon	Matthew 1:4
Who did the angel say was Mary's relative?	Elizabeth	Luke 1:36
What did Mary say about the rich in her song?	"the rich he has sent away empty"	Luke 1:53
What did the angel tell Joseph to name Mary's son?	Jesus	Matthew 1:21
When Jesus was presented in the temple, what was offered as a sacrifice?	A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons	Luke 2:24
What did the people do in the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis?	Philip was tetrarch there.	Luke 3:1
What did John the Baptist say would happen to the chaff?	He will burn it with unquenchable fire.	Luke 3:17
What did the devil quote to Jesus during the temptation?	Psalm 91:11-12	Matthew 4:6
In John 1, who did Andrew first find and bring to Jesus?	His own brother Simon.	John 1:41
What was Jesus's response to his mother at the wedding when she said they had no wine?	"Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come."	John 2:4
What was the name of the place where John was baptizing, which had plentiful water?	Aenon near Salim	John 3:23
Who did Jesus say gives the Spirit without measure?	God, to the one he has sent.	John 3:34
What did the Samaritan woman ask Jesus for?	"Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water."	John 4:15
What did the disciples say to one another when Jesus spoke of his "food"?	"Has anyone brought him something to eat?"	John 4:33
What was the reaction of the disciples to Jesus's teaching?	They were astonished.	Mark 1:22
What did the paralytic do after Jesus healed him?	He rose, picked up his bed, and went out before them all.	Mark 2:12
What did Jesus compare his disciples to when he was with them?	Wedding guests with the bridegroom.	Mark 2:19
Why did the Jews persecute Jesus after he healed the invalid?	Because he was doing these things on the Sabbath.	John 5:16
Who did Jesus say bears witness about him besides John the Baptist?	The works that the Father has given him to accomplish, and the Father himself.	John 5:36-37
Who did Jesus say accuses the Jews to the Father?	Moses	John 5:45
What was the name of the high priest during the time of David's eating the bread of the Presence, according to Mark?	Abiathar	Mark 2:26
Who was called the Zealot?	Simon	Matthew 10:4
What did Jesus say about those who are persecuted?	"Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."	Matthew 5:10
What did Jesus say about a person who insults his brother?	He will be liable to the council.	Matthew 5:22
What did Jesus say about a person who forces you to go one mile?	Go with him two miles.	Matthew 5:41
What did Jesus say about those who weep now, in the Sermon on the Plain?	"you shall laugh"	Luke 6:21
What did Jesus say a good person produces from the good treasure of his heart?	Good	Luke 6:45
What did the centurion's friends say to Jesus on his behalf?	"Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof."	Luke 7:6
Where did the widow whose son was raised live?	Nain	Luke 7:11
What were John's disciples doing when he sent them to Jesus?	They were in prison with him.	Matthew 11:2
Who was the wife of Chuza?	Joanna	Luke 8:3
What did the disciples do when Jesus calmed the storm?	They were afraid and marveled.	Luke 8:25
What was the first thing the two blind men said to Jesus?	"Have mercy on us, Son of David."	Matthew 9:27
What did Jesus do before sending out the Twelve?	He gave them instructions.	Matthew 10:5
Where did the feeding of the five thousand take place, according to Luke?	Near a town called Bethsaida.	Luke 9:10
What did the disciples suggest doing with the crowd before the feeding of the five thousand?	Send them away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves.	Matthew 14:15
What did Jesus do after he was told John the Baptist was beheaded?	He withdrew in a boat to a desolate place by himself.	Matthew 14:13
What was the disciples' reaction to Jesus walking on the water?	They were terrified.	Matthew 14:26
What did Jesus say about the plant that his heavenly Father has not planted?	"Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be rooted up."	Matthew 15:13
What did Jesus do for the deaf man with a speech impediment?	He put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting touched his tongue, and said "Ephphatha."	Mark 7:33-34
What did Jesus say when he healed the blind man at Bethsaida the second time?	The text does not record him speaking, only that he laid his hands on his eyes again.	Mark 8:25
What did Jesus say would happen to the Son of Man in his glory?	He would be ashamed of whoever is ashamed of him and his words.	Mark 8:38
What did Peter say at the Transfiguration, according to Mark?	"Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents..."	Mark 9:5
What did Jesus say about one who causes a little one who believes in him to sin?	"it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea."	Matthew 18:6
What was the amount of the debt the unforgiving servant was forgiven?	Ten thousand talents	Matthew 18:24
What did the people of Jerusalem say about Jesus's origin?	"we know where this man comes from, and when the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from."	John 7:27
What did Jesus say about the one who speaks on his own authority?	He seeks his own glory.	John 7:18
What did the Pharisees reply to Nicodemus?	"Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee."	John 7:52
What was the first thing Jesus said to the woman caught in adultery?	"Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?"	John 8:10
What did Jesus say about the truth?	"you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."	John 8:32
What did Jesus say about the father of lies?	The devil is a liar and the father of lies.	John 8:44
What did the healed blind man's parents fear?	The Jews, because they had agreed that anyone who confessed Jesus to be Christ would be put out of the synagogue.	John 9:22
What did the Pharisees say to the healed blind man?	"You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses."	John 9:28
Who did Jesus say enters by the door of the sheepfold?	The shepherd of the sheep	John 10:2
What did Jesus say the thief comes to do?	"to steal and kill and destroy"	John 10:10
What did the lawyer say to justify himself after being told the great commandment?	"And who is my neighbor?"	Luke 10:29
Why did the friend in the parable get up at midnight?	"because of his impudence"	Luke 11:8
What did Jesus say about a kingdom divided?	It is laid waste.	Luke 11:17
What did the lawyers do to the prophets' tombs?	They built them.	Luke 11:47
What did the master find the blessed servants doing when he returned?	He finds them awake.	Luke 12:37
What did the man say was the reason he couldn't come to the great banquet?	"I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come."	Luke 14:20
What did the master of the house say to the servant after the first guests made excuses?	"Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and crippled and blind and lame."	Luke 14:21
What did the older son say to his father about his years of service?	"Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command..."	Luke 15:29
What did Jesus say about it being better for a person than to cause a little one to sin?	"It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea"	Luke 17:2
Who did Jesus say he was in the context of raising the dead?	"I am the resurrection and the life."	John 11:25
What was Jesus's command to the people after Lazarus came out?	"Unbind him, and let him go."	John 11:44
What did Jesus say about what is impossible with man?	"What is impossible with man is possible with God."	Luke 18:27
What did Jesus say about those who followed him receiving in this time and in the age to come?	"many times more in this time, and in the age to come eternal life."	Luke 18:30
What did the master of the vineyard say to the foreman in the evening?	"Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the first."	Matthew 20:8
Why was Zacchaeus rich?	He was a chief tax collector.	Luke 19:2
What was the crowd's reaction when Jesus went to Zacchaeus's house?	They all grumbled.	Luke 19:7
What did Jesus say to the servant who was afraid of his severe master?	"I will condemn you with your own words, you wicked servant!"	Luke 19:22
What happened to the disciples who went with Jesus into the temple?	The text does not specify their actions during the cleansing.	Matthew 21:12
What was the first son's answer when his father asked him to work in the vineyard?	"I will not"	Matthew 21:29
What did the tenants do with the second group of servants?	They did the same to them as the first group.	Matthew 21:36
Who did the king invite to the wedding feast after the first guests refused?	As many as could be found on the main roads, both bad and good.	Matthew 22:9-10
What did the Pharisee's disciples and the Herodians say to Jesus to flatter him?	"Teacher, we know that you are true and teach the way of God truthfully, and you do not care about anyone’s opinion..."	Matthew 22:16
What did the Sadducees say happens in the resurrection?	They neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.	Matthew 22:30
What did David say in the psalm Jesus quoted?	"The Lord said to my Lord, 'Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool.'"	Luke 20:42-43
What did Jesus say about those who travel to make a single proselyte?	"when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves."	Matthew 23:15
What did Jesus say about swearing by the gift on the altar?	"whoever swears by the gift that is on the altar, he is bound by his oath."	Matthew 23:18
What did Jesus call the scribes and Pharisees who were like whitewashed tombs?	"Hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people’s bones and all uncleanness."	Matthew 23:27
Who did Jesus say he would send, some of whom would be killed and crucified?	Prophets and wise men and scribes	Matthew 23:34
What did Jesus say would not be known about that day and hour?	The day and hour of his coming.	Matthew 24:36
In the parable of the talents, what did the servant who received two talents do?	He went at once and traded with them, and he made two talents more.	Matthew 25:17
What did the King say to those on his right that they had done for him?	They gave him food, drink, welcomed him, clothed him, and visited him.	Matthew 25:35-36
What was Mary's sister's name?	The text does not specify her name, but identifies her as Mary the wife of Clopas.	John 19:25
Who did the chief priests and officers confer with to betray Jesus?	Judas Iscariot	Luke 22:4
What was Jesus's response to Peter's declaration to go with him to prison and death?	He predicted Peter's three denials before the rooster crowed.	Luke 22:34
What did Jesus say about his departure to the Father?	"If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I."	John 14:28
What did Jesus say is the greatest love?	"Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends."	John 15:13
What did Jesus say his followers would ask for in his name after he was gone?	"whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you."	John 15:16
What did Jesus say about his disciples not being of the world?	"because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you."	John 15:19
What did Jesus say was the reason he did not say "these things" from the beginning?	"because I was with you"	John 16:4
What did the high priest do when Jesus affirmed he was the Christ?	He tore his robes.	Matthew 26:65
Where did the chief priests and elders take counsel against Jesus?	In the palace of the high priest, Caiaphas.	Matthew 26:3, 27:1
What did the chief priests and elders do when Judas returned the money?	They refused it, saying "What is that to us? See to it yourself."	Matthew 27:4
What was Herod's jurisdiction?	Galilee	Luke 23:7
What was Pilate's question to the crowd when they asked for Barabbas?	"Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?"	Matthew 27:22
What did the soldiers do to Jesus after stripping him?	They put a scarlet robe on him.	Matthew 27:28
Where was Simon of Cyrene from?	He was coming in from the country.	Mark 15:21
What did Jesus say as they were crucifying him, according to Luke?	"Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do."	Luke 23:34
What were the last words of Jesus on the cross, according to Luke?	"Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!"	Luke 23:46
What did the mother of the sons of Zebedee do at the crucifixion?	She was looking on from a distance.	Matthew 27:56
Why did one of the soldiers pierce Jesus' side?	The text does not state a reason, only that they saw he was already dead and did not break his legs.	John 19:33-34
What was the burial custom of the Jews mentioned in John?	To bind the body in linen cloths with spices.	John 19:40
What did the chief priests say to Pilate about Jesus?	"Sir, we remember how that impostor said, while he was still alive, ‘After three days I will rise.’"	Matthew 27:63
Who sat on the stone that was rolled away?	An angel of the Lord	Matthew 28:2
What did the young man in the tomb say to the women?	"Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here."	Mark 16:6
Who was with Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James when they told the apostles?	Joanna and the other women with them.	Luke 24:10
Why did the other disciple not go into the tomb at first?	The text does not say.	John 20:5
What did the disciples say to one another after Jesus vanished?	"Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road...?"	Luke 24:32
What did the disciples on the road to Emmaus tell the rest?	What had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread.	Luke 24:35
What did Jesus say about a spirit?	"a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have."	Luke 24:39
What did Jesus say to Peter after the resurrection and the miraculous catch of fish?	He asked him three times, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?"	John 21:15-17
What did Jesus say the disciples would be clothed with from on high?	Power	Luke 24:49
What were the disciples doing when Jesus blessed them and was taken up?	They were in Bethany.	Luke 24:50
What was the name of the father of Jesse?	Obed	Matthew 1:5
What did Mary magnify in her song?	The Lord	Luke 1:46
What did the angel tell Joseph about the name Jesus?	"for he will save his people from their sins."	Matthew 1:21
Who was the tetrarch of Galilee during John's ministry?	Herod	Luke 3:1
What was the tempter's first question to Jesus in the wilderness?	"If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread."	Matthew 4:3
What did Jesus say the Spirit does on whom he descends and remains?	He is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.	John 1:33
What was the reaction of the disciples when Jesus manifested his glory at Cana?	They believed in him.	John 2:11
What was the disciple's name who asked "How can a man be born when he is old?"	Nicodemus	John 3:4
What did Jesus say about those who believe in him not being condemned?	"Whoever believes in him is not condemned..."	John 3:18
What did the disciples do with the leftover food after feeding the five thousand?	They took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces.	Matthew 14:20
What did Jesus tell the healed leper to show himself to?	The priest	Matthew 8:4
Who did Jesus eat with at Matthew's house?	Many tax collectors and sinners.	Matthew 9:10
What did Jesus say about new cloth on an old garment?	"the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made."	Matthew 9:16
What did Jesus say about his own testimony if he alone bears witness?	"my testimony is not true"	John 5:31
What did Jesus say about Moses's writings?	"if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?"	John 5:47
What was the name of the apostle who was from Cana in Galilee?	Nathanael	John 21:2
What did Jesus say about a lamp being put under a basket?	That it is not, but on a stand.	Mark 4:21
What did Jesus say about those who are well?	"Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick."	Mark 2:17
What was the name of the woman from whom seven demons had gone out?	Mary, called Magdalene	Luke 8:2
Who was Judas Iscariot's father?	The text identifies him as Judas the son of Simon Iscariot.	John 6:71
How much money did the disciples suggest would not be enough to feed the five thousand?	Two hundred denarii	John 6:7
What did Jesus' disciples say to him when they saw him walking on the sea?	"It is a ghost!"	Matthew 14:26
What did Peter say when he saw the wind while walking on the water?	He was afraid and cried out, "Lord, save me."	Matthew 14:30
What did Jesus say comes from within, out of the heart of man?	Evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness.	Mark 7:21-22
What did Jesus say about the man who asked for bread and was given a stone?	An evil father might, but the heavenly Father gives good things.	Matthew 7:9-11
What did the disciples ask Jesus after he told the parables of the kingdom?	"Why do you speak to them in parables?"	Matthew 13:10
What did the man who had two sons say when his father asked him to work?	The first said 'I will not' but went; the second said 'I will, sir' but did not.	Matthew 21:29-30
What did the tenants do to the owner's servants?	They beat one, killed another, and stoned another.	Matthew 21:35
In the parable of the wedding feast, what did the king's servants say to the invited guests?	"See, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast."	Matthew 22:4
What did Jesus say about the greatest among his followers?	"The greatest among you shall be your servant."	Matthew 23:11
What did Jesus say the hypocrites do to be seen when they give to the needy?	Sound a trumpet before them.	Matthew 6:2
What did Jesus tell the disciples to seek first?	"the kingdom of God and his righteousness"	Matthew 6:33
What did Jesus say to the disciples who worried about what to say when brought before governors?	"do not be anxious how you are to speak or what you are to say, for what you are to say will be given to you in that hour."	Matthew 10:19
What did Jesus say about losing one's life for his sake?	"whoever loses his life for my sake will find it."	Matthew 10:39
What did Jesus say about those who endure to the end?	"the one who endures to the end will be saved."	Matthew 10:22
What did the disciples say about the two brothers who asked to sit at Jesus' right and left?	The ten were indignant.	Matthew 20:24
What was the name of the blind beggar, the son of Timaeus?	Bartimaeus	Mark 10:46
What did Jesus say about the coming of the kingdom of God to the Pharisees?	"The kingdom of God is not coming in ways that can be observed"	Luke 17:20
What did Jesus say the Son of Man must do before his day comes?	"first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation."	Luke 17:25
What was the disciples' reaction to Jesus's third prediction of his death?	"they understood none of these things... and they did not grasp what was said."	Luke 18:34
What did the master of the vineyard tell the last group of laborers?	"You go into the vineyard too."	Matthew 20:7
What was the name of the mount where Jesus gave the triumphal entry instructions?	The Mount of Olives	Matthew 21:1
What did the crowds spread on the road for Jesus?	Their cloaks and branches from the trees.	Matthew 21:8
What happened to the fig tree after Jesus cursed it?	It withered at once.	Matthew 21:19b
What was the disciples' question about the fig tree?	"How did the fig tree wither at once?"	Matthew 21:20
What did the second son say in the parable?	"I will, sir"	Matthew 21:30
What did the king in the parable of the wedding feast find among his guests?	A man who had no wedding garment.	Matthew 22:11
What was Jesus's response to the lawyer's question about the great commandment?	He quoted the Shema and the command to love one's neighbor.	Matthew 22:37-39
What did Jesus say the scribes and Pharisees do to their fringes?	Make them long.	Matthew 23:5
What did Jesus say about the blood of all the prophets?	That it would be charged against "this generation".	Luke 11:50
What did the rich man in the parable plan to do with his barns?	Tear them down and build larger ones.	Luke 12:18
What did Jesus say about being unprepared for the Son of Man's coming?	He compared it to a master returning from a wedding feast to find his servants not awake.	Luke 12:36-37
What did Jesus say about a son or an ox falling into a well on the Sabbath?	"Which of you... will not immediately pull him out?"	Luke 14:5
Who did the master of the banquet tell his servant to compel to come in?	People from the highways and hedges.	Luke 14:23
What was the disciples' question to Jesus about the blind man's sin?	"Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?"	John 9:2
What did Jesus say about the sheep and the voice of a stranger?	"A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers."	John 10:5
What did the disciples say they rejoiced in upon their return?	"Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!"	Luke 10:17
What did Jesus tell his disciples they should rejoice in?	"that your names are written in heaven"	Luke 10:20
What was the profession of the man who tested Jesus?	A lawyer	Luke 10:25
Who passed by the injured man before the Samaritan?	A priest and a Levite.	Luke 10:31-32
What did Jesus say about his words and keeping them?	"Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me."	John 14:21
What did Jesus say about the ruler of this world?	"He has no claim on me"	John 14:30
What did Jesus say would happen to a branch that does not abide in him?	"it is thrown away like a branch and withers; and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned."	John 15:6
What did Jesus say about the service to God that some would think they are offering?	Killing his followers.	John 16:2
What did Jesus say about asking the Father on the disciples' behalf?	"I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf; for the Father himself loves you..."	John 16:26-27
What did Jesus pray his disciples would be sanctified in?	The truth	John 17:17
What did Jesus say to Peter, James, and John in Gethsemane?	"My soul is very sorrowful, even to death; remain here, and watch with me."	Matthew 26:38
What was Judas's greeting to Jesus?	"Greetings, Rabbi!"	Matthew 26:49
What was the name of the man whose son had seizures?	The text does not name him.	Matthew 17:14
What was the name of the place where Jesus was crucified?	Golgotha (The Place of a Skull)	Matthew 27:33
What was the charge against Jesus written on the cross?	"This is Jesus, the King of the Jews."	Matthew 27:37
What did the soldier run and get for Jesus on the cross?	A sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed.	Matthew 27:48
What happened to the centurion and those with him when they saw the earthquake?	They were filled with awe.	Matthew 27:54
What did the chief priests and Pharisees call Jesus when speaking to Pilate?	"that impostor"	Matthew 27:63
How did the guards at the tomb react to the angel?	They trembled and became like dead men.	Matthew 28:4
Why were the women who fled the tomb afraid?	Because of what they saw (the young man in a white robe) and heard.	Mark 16:5-8
Who did the two disciples on the road to Emmaus say delivered Jesus to be condemned?	"our chief priests and rulers"	Luke 24:20
What did the disciples on the road to Emmaus do when Jesus acted as if he were going farther?	They urged him strongly to stay with them.	Luke 24:29
How many times did Jesus appear to his disciples after the resurrection, according to the end of John's gospel?	This was the third time.	John 21:14
What did Jesus say to the disciple whom Jesus loved about his own fate?	"If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me!"	John 21:22
What did Jesus command his disciples to do in all the world?	"Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation."	Mark 16:15
What did Jesus say would happen to those who believe and are baptized?	They will be saved.	Mark 16:16
What did Jesus do for his disciples before he parted from them?	He led them out as far as Bethany and blessed them.	Luke 24:50
What did Jesus say the disciples would be witnesses of?	"these things" (his suffering, resurrection, and the proclamation of repentance)	Luke 24:48
What was the family relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus?	They were relatives (cousins, though the text says "relative").	Luke 1:36
What did Mary do after the angel departed from her?	She arose and went with haste into the hill country to a town in Judah.	Luke 1:39
What did Joseph and Mary do when they had performed everything according to the Law of the Lord?	They returned into Galilee, to their own town of Nazareth.	Luke 2:39
What was the reaction of those who heard the 12-year-old Jesus in the temple?	They were amazed at his understanding and his answers.	Luke 2:47
According to Mark, what was John the Baptist proclaiming?	A baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.	Mark 1:4
What was the disciples' reaction to the great catch of fish?	They were astonished.	Luke 5:9
What was Jesus's question to the man with the withered hand?	"Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?"	Mark 3:4
What was the name of the disciple who became a traitor?	Judas Iscariot	Luke 6:16
What did Jesus say about the one who hungers and thirsts for righteousness?	"they shall be satisfied"	Matthew 5:6
What did Jesus tell his disciples to do if someone slaps them on the right cheek?	Turn to him the other also.	Matthew 5:39
What did the centurion say about his servant?	"Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly."	Matthew 8:6
Where were the "many" who came from east and west to recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob?	In the kingdom of heaven	Matthew 8:11
What was Jesus's question to the crowds about John the Baptist?	"What did you go out into the wilderness to see?"	Matthew 11:7
What did the woman who anointed Jesus's feet bring her ointment in?	An alabaster flask	Luke 7:37
What did Jesus say is known by its fruit?	A tree	Matthew 12:33
What happened when Jesus got into the boat to cross the lake?	A great storm arose on the sea.	Matthew 8:24
Where was Jesus sleeping in the boat?	In the stern, asleep on the cushion.	Mark 4:38
What did the two blind men do when the crowd rebuked them?	They cried out all the more.	Matthew 20:31
Where did the people lay the sick in Gennesaret?	In the marketplaces	Mark 6:56
What did Jesus say about those who seek him because they ate their fill of loaves?	He told them not to work for food that perishes, but for food that endures to eternal life.	John 6:26-27
What did Peter say about Jesus that identified him as divine?	"You are the Holy One of God."	John 6:69
What did Jesus say about the things that come from within?	"All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person."	Mark 7:23
What did the disciples ask Jesus after the second prediction of his death?	The text states they were afraid to ask him.	Mark 9:32
What did Jesus say about receiving one such child in his name?	"Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me"	Matthew 18:5
What did Jesus say to do with a brother who sins against you?	Go and tell him his fault between you and him alone.	Matthew 18:15
What did Jesus's brothers say about working in secret?	"no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly."	John 7:4
What did Jesus say about judging by appearances?	"Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment."	John 7:24
What did Jesus say about those who are of the world?	"If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own"	John 15:19
What did the seventy-two say about the spirits?	They are subject to them in Jesus's name.	Luke 10:17
What did the master of the house say to the first servant who made excuses?	The text does not record a direct response to the first servant.	Luke 14:18-21
What did the Pharisees ridicule Jesus for?	His teachings on wealth, because they were lovers of money.	Luke 16:14
What did Jesus say about the man who was justified, the Pharisee or the tax collector?	The tax collector went down to his house justified, rather than the other.	Luke 18:14
What was Jesus's question to the mother of Zebedee's sons?	"What do you want?"	Matthew 20:21
What did Jesus say about the coming kingdom of our father David?	Those who followed him shouted, "Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David!"	Mark 11:10
What did Jesus say about the kingdom of God to the scribe who answered wisely?	"You are not far from the kingdom of God."	Mark 12:34
What did Jesus say about those who swear by the temple?	They swear by it and by him who dwells in it.	Matthew 23:21
What did Jesus say his followers would gain by their endurance?	Their lives	Luke 21:19
What did Jesus say his followers should do when they see things begin to take place?	"straighten up and raise your heads, because your redemption is drawing near."	Luke 21:28
What did the wise virgins say to the foolish virgins?	"Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves."	Matthew 25:9
What did the master say to the servant who earned two more talents?	"Well done, good and faithful servant... Enter into the joy of your master."	Matthew 25:23
What was the name of the high priest where the elders gathered?	Caiaphas	Matthew 26:3
What did Jesus say about the one who dipped his hand in the dish with him?	"He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me."	Matthew 26:23
What did Jesus say the new commandment was?	"that you love one another: just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another."	John 13:34
What did Jesus say about taking his life from him?	"No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord."	John 10:18
What did Jesus say would convict the world concerning sin?	"because they do not believe in me"	John 16:9
What did Jesus say would convict the world concerning judgment?	"because the ruler of this world is judged"	John 16:11
What did Jesus say about asking in figures of speech?	"The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father."	John 16:25
What did Jesus pray the Father would do with his disciples?	"keep them in your name... that they may be one"	John 17:11
What did Jesus say about those who are not of the world?	That the world has hated them.	John 17:14
What did Jesus say about the servant of the high priest after his ear was cut off?	"No more of this!" And he touched his ear and healed him.	Luke 22:51
What did Jesus say to the chief priests and elders who came to arrest him?	"Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs?"	Luke 22:52
What was the judgment of the whole council against Jesus?	They all condemned him as deserving death.	Mark 14:64
What did Pilate say when he washed his hands?	"I am innocent of this man’s blood; see to it yourselves."	Matthew 27:24
What was the first thing the soldiers did after taking Jesus into the governor's headquarters?	They gathered the whole battalion before him.	Matthew 27:27
What did the inscription on the cross say, according to Mark?	"The King of the Jews."	Mark 15:26
What did the soldiers say to Jesus on the cross, according to Luke?	"If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself!"	Luke 23:37
Who took down Jesus's body from the cross?	Joseph of Arimathea	Mark 15:46
What did Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea do with Jesus's body?	They took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices.	John 19:40
What did the women see at the tomb, besides the two men?	The stone rolled away from the tomb, but not the body of the Lord Jesus.	Luke 24:2-3
What did Peter do when he ran to the tomb?	He stooped and looked in.	Luke 24:12
What did Jesus ask Mary Magdalene at the tomb?	"Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?"	John 20:15
What did the chief priests give the soldiers to spread the story?	A sufficient sum of money	Matthew 28:12
What did the two disciples say to each other on the road to Emmaus?	"Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road...?"	Luke 24:32
What did the eleven and those with them say when the two disciples returned?	"The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!"	Luke 24:34
What did Jesus do with the piece of broiled fish?	He took it and ate before them.	Luke 24:43
How many large fish were in the net?	153	John 21:11
What did the disciples do when they saw the risen Jesus in Galilee?	They worshiped him, but some doubted.	Matthew 28:17
Where did the Lord Jesus preach after his ascension?	The disciples preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them.	Mark 16:20
What did the disciples do continually after the ascension?	They were continually in the temple blessing God.	Luke 24:53
What did Mary do when she heard Elizabeth's greeting?	She spoke her song of joy (the Magnificat).	Luke 1:46
What did Simeon say he could do now that he had seen salvation?	"Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace"	Luke 2:29
What was John the Baptist's message to the Pharisees and Sadducees?	"Bear fruit in keeping with repentance."	Matthew 3:8
Where did Jesus go after being baptized?	He came up from the water, and the Spirit descended on him.	Matthew 3:16
What did Jesus answer to the tempter's final challenge in Matthew?	"Be gone, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.’"	Matthew 4:10
What did the servants at the wedding know that the master of the feast did not?	Where the wine came from.	John 2:9
What did Jesus say about the one who does not believe?	"whoever does not believe is condemned already"	John 3:18
Who did Jesus say gives life to the world?	The bread of God who comes down from heaven.	John 6:33
What did Jesus say is the work of God?	"that you believe in him whom he has sent."	John 6:29
How did the disciples react to Jesus's teaching on eating his flesh and drinking his blood?	Many said, "This is a hard saying; who can listen to it?"	John 6:60
What did Jesus say about his words being spirit and life?	"The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life."	John 6:63
What did Jesus's disciples ask him to explain?	The parable about what defiles a person.	Matthew 15:15
How did Jesus heal the blind man at Bethsaida?	He spit on his eyes and laid his hands on him, twice.	Mark 8:23, 25
What was the disciples' reaction to the Transfiguration?	They fell on their faces and were terrified.	Matthew 17:6
What did Jesus say about those who are not against us?	"the one who is not against us is for us."	Mark 9:40
What did Jesus say about salt?	"Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another."	Mark 9:50
What was the first thing the Samaritan woman said to Jesus?	"How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria?"	John 4:9
What did Jesus say about the harvest?	"The fields are white for harvest."	John 4:35
What was the first question Jesus asked the paralytic's friends?	The text does not show him asking them a question, but he spoke to the paralytic first.	Mark 2:5
What did the rich man in Hades worry about?	His five brothers, that they would also come to that place of torment.	Luke 16:28
What did the tax collector pray for?	"God, be merciful to me, a sinner!"	Luke 18:13
What was the disciples' reaction to the feeding of the four thousand?	They asked where they could get enough bread in a desolate place.	Matthew 15:33
What did Jesus say about his "cup"?	He asked James and John if they were able to drink the cup that he was to drink.	Matthew 20:22
What was the name of the place where Jesus told his disciples to find a donkey?	Bethphage	Matthew 21:1
What did Jesus say about the tenants of the vineyard?	"He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants"	Matthew 21:41
What was the second woe against the scribes and Pharisees?	For making a proselyte twice as much a child of hell as themselves.	Matthew 23:15
What did Jesus say would happen to the love of many?	It will grow cold because lawlessness will be increased.	Matthew 24:12
What did the master do with the talent from the worthless servant?	He gave it to the one who had the ten talents.	Matthew 25:28
What did Judas do from the moment he was paid?	He sought an opportunity to betray Jesus.	Matthew 26:16
What did Jesus say about a new commandment?	That he was giving them a new one: to love one another.	John 13:34
What did Jesus say about his relationship with his disciples?	"I am the vine; you are the branches."	John 15:5
What did Jesus say about his disciples asking him things "in that day"?	"In that day you will ask nothing of me."	John 16:23
What was the name of the brook Jesus crossed to get to Gethsemane?	The brook Kidron	John 18:1
What did the chief priests say to Pilate about the inscription?	"Do not write, ‘The King of the Jews,’ but rather, ‘This man said, I am King of the Jews.’"	John 19:21
What did the soldiers do to Jesus to mock him as king?	They stripped him, put a scarlet robe on him, twisted a crown of thorns for his head, put a reed in his hand, and knelt before him.	Matthew 27:28-29
What was the last thing Jesus said before giving up his spirit, according to John?	"It is finished."	John 19:30
What did the women do on the Sabbath?	They returned and prepared spices and ointments, and rested according to the commandment.	Luke 23:56
What did the young man at the tomb tell the women to do?	"go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee."	Mark 16:7
What was the reason the disciples did not understand that Jesus must rise from the dead?	The text simply states "for as yet they did not understand the Scripture..."	John 20:9
What did the soldiers say to do with Jesus's tunic?	"Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be."	John 19:24
What did Jesus do with the disciples after his resurrection in Jerusalem?	He opened their minds to understand the Scriptures.	Luke 24:45
Who was the first person to see the risen Jesus, according to Mark?	Mary Magdalene	Mark 16:9
What was the name of the sea where Jesus appeared to the seven disciples?	The Sea of Tiberias	John 21:1
What did the disciples on the shore see?	A charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread.	John 21:9
What was Peter's response to Jesus's prophecy about his death?	He asked about the disciple whom Jesus loved.	John 21:21
What did Jesus say his disciples would be able to do in his name?	Cast out demons and speak in new tongues.	Mark 16:17
What was Jesus doing when he was taken up into heaven?	He was blessing his disciples.	Luke 24:51
Where was Zechariah when the angel appeared to him?	In the temple of the Lord, at the right side of the altar of incense.	Luke 1:9, 11
What was the name of the man whose son Jesus was, as was supposed?	Joseph	Luke 3:23b
What happened when the wise men saw the star stop over the house?	They rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.	Matthew 2:10
What did the crowd ask John the Baptist to do?	They asked him, "What then shall we do?"	Luke 3:10
Who was the brother of Jesus who later saw the risen Lord?	James	1 Corinthians 15:7
What was the first thing Jesus said to the cleansed leper?	"I will; be clean."	Mark 1:41
What was the name of the pool in Aramaic that had five roofed colonnades?	Bethesda	John 5:2
What did the man healed at Bethesda do after Jesus found him in the temple?	He went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him.	John 5:15
What did Jesus say about those who are merciful?	"they shall receive mercy"	Matthew 5:7
What did Jesus say about those who are pure in heart?	"they shall see God"	Matthew 5:8
What did Jesus say about those who are peacemakers?	"they shall be called sons of God"	Matthew 5:9
Where did Jesus go when he entered Capernaum, according to Matthew 8?	He had just come down from the mountain after the Sermon on the Mount.	Matthew 8:1, 5
What happened when the dead man, the widow's son, was raised?	He sat up and began to speak.	Luke 7:15
What did the people of the Gerasenes do after seeing the healed man?	They began to beg Jesus to depart from their region.	Mark 5:17
What did Jesus say about his disciples being dragged before governors and kings?	It would be "to bear witness before them and the Gentiles."	Matthew 10:18
How did Peter react when Jesus told him he would deny him?	He said emphatically, "If I must die with you, I will not deny you."	Mark 14:31
What did the Jews say when they saw Jesus weep?	"See how he loved him!"	John 11:36
Who did Caiaphas say Jesus would die for?	The nation, and also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.	John 11:51-52
What did Jesus say about Lot's wife?	"Remember Lot’s wife."	Luke 17:32
What did Jesus say about the coming Son of Man's glory?	He will come in his glory and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.	Luke 9:26
What did Jesus say to the scribe who wanted to follow him wherever he went?	"Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head."	Matthew 8:20
What was the reaction of the disciples to Jesus's teaching on divorce?	They asked him again about this matter in the house.	Mark 10:10
What did the crowds do during the Sermon on the Mount?	The text does not specify their actions during, only that they were astonished after.	Matthew 7:28
What did the master of the house do when the banquet was ready and the guests made excuses?	He became angry.	Luke 14:21
What did the father do when his older son was angry?	He came out and entreated him.	Luke 15:28
Who was the brother of Philip the tetrarch?	Herod the tetrarch	Luke 3:1
What did Jesus say about his relationship to the Father to his disciples?	"If you had known me, you would have known my Father also."	John 14:7
What did Jesus say about peace?	"Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you."	John 14:27
What did the disciples say after Jesus told them he was going to the Father?	They asked how they could know the way.	John 14:5
What did the disciples do after the Last Supper and before going to Gethsemane?	They had sung a hymn.	Matthew 26:30
Who did the soldiers mock besides Jesus?	The text does not specify they mocked others at that time.	Matthew 27:27-31
Who was guarding the tomb?	A guard of soldiers.	Matthew 27:65
What did Mary Magdalene suppose Jesus was?	The gardener	John 20:15
What did the two disciples on the road to Emmaus say about the women from their company?	"They were at the tomb early in the morning, and when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had even seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive."	Luke 24:22-23
What did Jesus say to the disciples about his hands and feet?	"See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see."	Luke 24:39
What did the other disciples do in the boat while Peter was in the sea?	They came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish.	John 21:8
What did Jesus say to Peter that grieved him?	The third time he asked, "Do you love me?"	John 21:17
What was the final command Jesus gave to Peter?	"Follow me."	John 21:19
What did the apostles do after Jesus ascended?	They went out and preached everywhere.	Mark 16:20
What did the wise men do when they saw the child with Mary?	They fell down and worshiped him.	Matthew 2:11
Where were Jesus' parents searching for him?	Among their relatives and acquaintances.	Luke 2:44
Who was the tetrarch of Abilene?	Lysanias	Luke 3:1
What did John the Baptist tell the people with extra food to do?	Share with him who has none.	Luke 3:11
Where were the wild animals during Jesus' temptation?	In the wilderness with him.	Mark 1:13
What did the healed leper do that made it difficult for Jesus to enter a town openly?	He began to talk freely about it and to spread the news.	Mark 1:45
What did Jesus say to the scribes who questioned his authority to forgive sins?	"Why do you question these things in your hearts?"	Mark 2:8
What happened to the disciples who were with Jesus during the Sermon on the Mount?	They came to him when he sat down.	Matthew 5:1
What did Jesus say about those who are rich, in the Sermon on the Plain?	"Woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation."	Luke 6:24
What did Jesus say about a tree and its fruit?	"each tree is known by its own fruit."	Luke 6:44
What did the elders of the Jews say about the centurion?	"He is worthy to have you do this for him, for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built us our synagogue."	Luke 7:4-5
What did Jesus say about the Son of Man being Lord of the Sabbath?	He said it after his disciples plucked grain on the Sabbath.	Luke 6:5
What did Jesus do after healing Peter's mother-in-law?	That evening, he cast out many spirits and healed all who were sick.	Matthew 8:16
What did the Gerasenes do after Jesus healed the demoniac?	They asked him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear.	Luke 8:37
What was the name of the man who asked Jesus to heal his daughter?	Jairus	Luke 8:41
What was the name of the place where Jesus fed the five thousand, according to Mark?	A desolate place.	Mark 6:35
What did Jesus say to the disciples when they returned from their mission?	"Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while."	Mark 6:31
What did the people do when they saw the sign of the feeding of the five thousand?	They wanted to come and take him by force to make him king.	John 6:14-15
What did Jesus say about his Father giving bread from heaven?	"my Father gives you the true bread from heaven."	John 6:32
What did Jesus say about the one who hears his word and believes?	"has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life."	John 5:24
What did Jesus say about the tradition of men?	"You leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men."	Mark 7:8
What was the name of the district where Jesus went after the conflict over tradition?	The district of Tyre and Sidon.	Matthew 15:21
What did Jesus do when he healed the man with the withered hand?	He told him, "Stretch out your hand."	Matthew 12:13
What was the name of the place where Peter made his confession?	The district of Caesarea Philippi	Matthew 16:13
What did Jesus say about the cost of following him?	"If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me."	Matthew 16:24
What was the appearance of Jesus's clothes at the Transfiguration?	They became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them.	Mark 9:3
What was the disciples' question to Jesus about rising from the dead?	They kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean.	Mark 9:10
What did Jesus say about a cup of water given in his name?	"whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward."	Mark 9:41
What did the man say to Jesus who wanted to bury his father first?	"Lord, let me first go and bury my father."	Luke 9:59
What did Jesus say to the man who wanted to bury his father?	"Leave the dead to bury their own dead. But as for you, go and proclaim the kingdom of God."	Luke 9:60
What did the officers say when they failed to arrest Jesus?	"No one ever spoke like this man!"	John 7:46
What did Jesus say to those who believed in him?	"If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples"	John 8:31
What did Jesus say about Abraham?	"Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad."	John 8:56
What did the Pharisees say was the reason the blind man was cast out?	"You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us?"	John 9:34
What did Jesus say to the healed blind man?	"Do you believe in the Son of Man?"	John 9:35
What did Jesus say about his knowledge of his sheep?	"I know my own and my own know me"	John 10:14
What did the people of Chorazin and Bethsaida fail to do?	Repent	Matthew 11:20
What did Jesus say about the Sabbath and an ox?	"Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to water it?"	Luke 13:15
What did Jesus say he would do for those who believe in him, in John 14?	"greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father."	John 14:12
What did Jesus say he and the disciples would do with the one who loves him?	"we will come to him and make our home with him."	John 14:23
What did Jesus say the Father does to a branch that bears fruit?	He prunes it, that it may bear more fruit.	John 15:2
What did the disciples say after Jesus spoke plainly about his departure?	"Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you"	John 16:30
What did Jesus say he had given his disciples from his Father?	His word/the words	John 17:8, 14
What did the soldiers do with the betrayer Judas?	The text does not specify their interaction with Judas after the arrest.	Matthew 26:47-50
What did Jesus say about his ability to call angels?	"Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels?"	Matthew 26:53
What was Peter doing in the courtyard?	Sitting with the guards to see the end, and warming himself by the fire.	Matthew 26:58, Mark 14:54
What did the servant girl say to Peter?	"You also were with Jesus the Galilean."	Matthew 26:69
What did the bystanders say to Peter?	"Certainly you too are one of them, for your accent betrays you."	Matthew 26:73
What did the chief priests and elders say to Pilate about Jesus's disciples?	They persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas instead.	Matthew 27:20
What did the soldiers do with Jesus's clothes at the crucifixion?	They divided his garments among them by casting lots.	Matthew 27:35
Who did Jesus commit his spirit to?	The Father	Luke 23:46
Who took Jesus's body and laid it in his own new tomb?	Joseph of Arimathea	Matthew 27:59-60
Who was with Mary Magdalene when she went to the tomb on the first day of the week?	The other Mary	Matthew 28:1
What did the women do when they left the tomb?	They departed quickly with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples.	Matthew 28:8
What did Peter find in the tomb?	The linen cloths by themselves.	Luke 24:12
What did the disciples on the road to Emmaus say about the chief priests and rulers?	That they delivered Jesus up to be condemned to death and crucified him.	Luke 24:20
How many of the disciples were assembled when Jesus appeared to them?	The ten (or eleven, depending on the account)	Mark 16:14, Luke 24:33
What did Jesus do after showing the disciples his hands and side?	He said, "Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you."	John 20:21
What did Jesus say to Peter about his love for him?	He asked him three times if he loved him.	John 21:15-17
What did Jesus say would happen to those who drink any deadly poison?	It will not hurt them.	Mark 16:18
Where did the disciples return after the ascension?	To Jerusalem	Luke 24:52
In the beginning, what was the light of?	Men	John 1:4
How long had Elizabeth been barren?	The text says she was advanced in years.	Luke 1:7
What was the name of the house where Mary went to visit Elizabeth?	The house of Zechariah	Luke 1:40
What did the shepherds do after seeing Jesus?	They returned, glorifying and praising God.	Luke 2:20
What did the prophet Isaiah say about the one crying in the wilderness?	"Prepare the way of the Lord; make his paths straight."	Matthew 3:3
What did the healed leper do that caused Jesus to withdraw to desolate places?	He spread the news freely.	Luke 5:15-16
What did Jesus say about a person who is not against him?	"the one who is not against you is for you."	Luke 9:50
What was the name of the Pharisee who invited Jesus to eat with him?	Simon	Luke 7:40
What did the Gerasene demoniac say his name was?	"My name is Legion, for we are many."	Mark 5:9
What did the disciples say about the woman who touched Jesus's garment?	"You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, ‘Who touched me?’"	Mark 5:31
What did Jesus say to the disciples who wanted to forbid someone from casting out demons?	"Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me."	Mark 9:39
What did Jesus say to do if your foot causes you to sin?	"cut it off"	Mark 9:45
What was the disciples' reaction to Jesus's teaching about greatness?	They had argued with one another about who was the greatest.	Mark 9:34
What did the unforgiving servant's master call him?	"You wicked servant!"	Matthew 18:32
What did Jesus say about the law of Moses and circumcision on the Sabbath?	"If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man’s whole body well?"	John 7:23
What did the good shepherd do for his sheep?	He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.	John 10:3
What did Jesus say about the kingdom of God to the people of Chorazin and Bethsaida?	He pronounced woes upon them for their failure to repent.	Luke 10:13
What was the question the lawyer asked Jesus to justify himself?	"And who is my neighbor?"	Luke 10:29
What did the master of the house say after his servant reported there was still room?	"Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled."	Luke 14:23
What was the elder son's response to his father's entreaty?	He complained that he had served for many years and never received even a young goat for a feast.	Luke 15:29
What did Abraham say the rich man's brothers had?	"They have Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them."	Luke 16:29
What did Jesus say to the one who sins seven times and repents seven times?	"you must forgive him."	Luke 17:4
What did Jesus say about what would happen in the days of the Son of Man?	It would be like the days of Noah.	Luke 17:26
What was the Pharisee's prayer in the temple?	He thanked God he was not like other men.	Luke 18:11
What was the disciples' question to Jesus about his teaching on divorce?	"If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry."	Matthew 19:10
What did Jesus say about the rich person entering the kingdom of heaven?	"it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God."	Matthew 19:24
What did Jesus say about those who are last?	"But many who are first will be last, and the last first."	Matthew 19:30
What did Jesus say to the disciples when they were indignant at the sons of Zebedee?	"You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them... It shall not be so among you."	Matthew 20:25-26
What did Jesus say to the chief priests and elders after they answered "We do not know"?	"Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."	Matthew 21:27
What did the king do when his invited guests would not come to the feast?	He was angry and sent his troops to destroy them.	Matthew 22:7
What did Jesus say the scribes and Pharisees love?	The place of honor at feasts, the best seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the marketplaces.	Matthew 23:6-7
What did Jesus say about the temple stones?	"there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down."	Matthew 24:2
What did the five foolish virgins take with them?	Their lamps, but no oil.	Matthew 25:3
What was the master's response to the virgins who knocked on the door?	"Truly, I say to you, I do not know you."	Matthew 25:12
How much was the ointment Mary used worth?	More than three hundred denarii.	Mark 14:5
What did the disciples say about the Passover lamb?	They asked where to prepare for Jesus to eat it.	Mark 14:12
What did Jesus say the cup represented?	"my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many."	Mark 14:24
What did Jesus say would happen to the sheep when the shepherd is struck?	"the sheep will be scattered"	Mark 14:27
What did Jesus say about his own soul in Gethsemane?	"My soul is very sorrowful, even to death."	Mark 14:34
What did the high priest say after Jesus's testimony?	"What further witnesses do we need? You have heard his blasphemy."	Mark 14:63-64
What did Peter do after denying Jesus the third time?	He broke down and wept.	Mark 14:72
What was the name of the place where Jesus was crucified, in Aramaic?	Golgotha	John 19:17
What did Pilate say about what he had written?	"What I have written I have written."	John 19:22
What did the mother of James and Joseph do at the crucifixion?	She was looking on from a distance.	Matthew 27:56
Who was with Joseph of Arimathea when he buried Jesus?	Nicodemus	John 19:39
What was the reason the tomb was made secure?	Lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people, ‘He has risen from the dead.’	Matthew 27:64
What was the young man in the tomb wearing?	A white robe	Mark 16:5
What did the disciples at Emmaus say about the third day?	"it is now the third day since these things happened."	Luke 24:21
What did the disciples on the road to Emmaus recognize Jesus by?	His breaking of the bread.	Luke 24:35
What did Jesus do with the disciples in Jerusalem to show he was not a spirit?	He showed them his hands and his feet and ate a piece of broiled fish.	Luke 24:39-43
What was the question the disciples on the boat asked when they saw the fish on the fire?	None of them dared ask him, "Who are you?"	John 21:12
What did Jesus say about the signs that would accompany believers?	They would cast out demons, speak in new tongues, pick up serpents, and heal the sick.	Mark 16:17-18
What was the last thing Jesus did on earth?	He was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God.	Mark 16:19
In Mary's song, who has God helped?	"his servant Israel"	Luke 1:54
What did Zechariah do immediately after his mouth was opened?	He spoke, blessing God.	Luke 1:64
What did Herod's chief priests and scribes tell him about the Christ's birthplace?	"In Bethlehem of Judea"	Matthew 2:5
What did the people of Jerusalem and Judea do when they went out to John?	They were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.	Matthew 3:6
What was the name of the place where John the Baptist was baptizing?	The river Jordan, and Bethany across the Jordan.	Matthew 3:6, John 1:28
Where did the unclean spirits from the demoniac ask to be sent?	Into the herd of pigs.	Mark 5:12
How many years had the woman with the discharge of blood suffered?	Twelve years	Mark 5:25
What was the disciples' reaction when Jesus told them to give the crowd something to eat?	"Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?"	Mark 6:37
What did Jesus say to his disciples after Peter's confession?	He strictly charged them to tell no one that he was the Christ.	Matthew 16:20
What did Jesus say about the Holy Spirit and blasphemy?	"whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin"	Mark 3:29
What did Jesus say about a city or house divided against itself?	"it will not stand"	Matthew 12:25
What was the Pharisees' response to Jesus's parables about the kingdom?	They perceived that he was speaking about them.	Matthew 21:45
What was the punishment for the man without a wedding garment?	He was bound hand and foot and cast into the outer darkness.	Matthew 22:13
What did Jesus say about the things that are Caesar's?	"render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s"	Matthew 22:21
What did Jesus say about the law and the prophets depending on the two great commandments?	"On these two commandments depend all the Law and the Prophets."	Matthew 22:40
What did Jesus tell his disciples not to be called?	Rabbi, father, or instructors.	Matthew 23:8-10
What did the five wise virgins take with them?	Flasks of oil with their lamps.	Matthew 25:4
What was the reason the Sanhedrin did not want to arrest Jesus during the feast?	"lest there be an uproar among the people."	Matthew 26:5
What did Jesus say to Peter after he drew his sword?	"Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword."	Matthew 26:52
What did the chief priests do with the money Judas returned?	They bought the potter's field as a burial place for strangers.	Matthew 27:7
What was the crowd's response when Pilate asked what evil Jesus had done?	They shouted all the more, "Let him be crucified!"	Matthew 27:23
What was the name of the man who carried Jesus's cross?	Simon of Cyrene	Mark 15:21
What was Jesus's last cry on the cross, according to Mark?	"Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?"	Mark 15:34
Who saw where Jesus was laid?	Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses	Mark 15:47
What did the women at the tomb see when they looked up?	That the stone had been rolled back.	Mark 16:4
What was the reaction of the disciples to Mary Magdalene's report of the risen Christ?	They would not believe it.	Mark 16:11
What was Thomas's condition for belief?	"Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe."	John 20:25
What did Jesus say to those who have not seen and yet have believed?	"Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed."	John 20:29
What was Peter's state when Jesus appeared on the shore?	He was stripped for work.	John 21:7
What did Jesus tell his disciples would be proclaimed in his name?	Repentance for the forgiveness of sins	Luke 24:47